# Near-Earth-Asteroid-Moon-Comparison-for-Interested-Observers
Dataset of near Earth asteroids with distance and size in comparison to the Moon.

The following is my project plan for Code Louisville Data Analysis Course 1 final project. This project will be titled Near Earth Asteroid Moon Comparison for Interested Observers. The dataset I plan to use came from NASA’s open data portal and is referenced as follows: Bauer, J. M. and Lawrence, K. J., Eds. (2020). Near Earth Asteroid Tracking V1.0. urn:nasa:pds:gbo.ast.neat.survey::1.0. NASA Planetary Data System; https://doi.org/10.26033/xkmy-me08. My final project will show a dataset of near earth asteroids, their characteristics such as distance and size, which will be used to perform calculations and comparisons with the diameter/size of the moon. My project will be uploaded to Github, coded using Python in Visual Studio. Instructions will be included for running the program as well as accessing the data. For example, NASA’s data portal instructs to run funpack to recover the data and the FITSIO package will be needed. Markdown cells will be used throughout the coded project to describe how the data has been scraped and utilized in the project, to explain the pandas and numpy functions used to clean the data, find the median distances, median sizes of the asteroids, as well as to explain the functions used for comparison to the size and diameter of the moon. I plan to use matplotlib to visualize the 10 largest asteroids and the 10 closest asteroids, with an explanation of what these graphs demonstrate. I also plan to include some recent visual links regarding NASA’s DART mission that test-crashed a spacecraft on the asteroid Dimorphos, which altered its orbit and created a debris trail. I hope this project will create interest and a better understanding of the asteroids near Earth. 
